Let's recap Gaussian distributions in one dimension.
Say, we have test scores as an example.
Assume that this is a dataset of how a class of students did on a certain exam.
Test scores tend to have this general distribution.
Since there's a bit of overlap in the middle here,
and it's hard to see how densely packed this region is,
we will plot a histogram.
The height of the histogram is basically how many points are in this band.
So, we can see that this is the highest bar,
so this indicates that this band here,
this contains the highest number of points from
all of the bands that are in the same size.
This histogram shows us
the familiar bell curve that defines a Gaussian distribution, or normal distribution.
This is how a Gaussian distribution looks in one dimension.
The numbers that describe a Gaussian distribution are,
one, is the mean or average,
here it's 66, we give it the name μ here,
and the standard deviation.
And so, the standard deviation in this case is 15,
that's easy to calculate.
And so, this region here,
which is the mean plus one standard deviation,
and the mean minus one standard deviation,
this point here contains 68 percent of the points in the dataset.
This is a property of a Gaussian distribution.
In this area here,
which is basically the mean plus two standard deviations,
and the mean minus two standard deviations,
contains 95 percent of points,
and this area contains 99 percent of points.
This is a quick look of how Gaussian distributions look in one dimension.